#summary Description of what Quon software can do.
#labels Featured

= Quon product description =

Quon survey software is a freeware program allowing researchers to design and implement surveys, free of royalty and data quantity or privacy issues.  Originally designed for management of surveys relevant to health behaviour, Quon can be employed to conduct surveys on almost any topic. The software provides user-friendly survey *_definition_* and *_deployment_* modules for construction and implementation of surveys.  In addition Quon provides for collection of metadata relating to the survey, and publication of the survey metadata on the [http://services.ands.org.au/ Research Data Australia (RDA)] website, managed by the [http://ands.org.au/ Australian National Data Service (ANDS)].


= How does the system work? =

Researchers are able to set up individual and group accounts.  The *_survey definition_* module enables the design of surveys using a variety of question and response types.  The combination of both built-in templates and provision for custom design helps to streamline the survey design process.  The *_survey navigation_* component enables the survey respondent to be directed to different questions, based on answers they give to previous questions in the survey.  

Using a web interface, the survey participant is able to respond to survey questions on any one of a range of devices including desktop computers, laptops, and hand held devices such iPads and smart phones.  Therefore surveys can be conducted on devices commonly owned and used by survey respondents (i.e. their own smart phones), as well as relatively inexpensive centrally owned devices (i.e. iPods and similar) housed at surgeries or other collection sites.  Electronic data captured by the software is securely transmitted from the device to a central server, followed by automatic collation and summarisation ready for analysis by the researcher.  Survey data can be downloaded as .xml or .csv files to be read and analysed using commonly available software such as Excel. 

Quon is the only software available that provides a one stop shop for survey design, deployment AND the publication of survey metadata on the RDA website.  The *_metadata management_* component of Quon provides a guided step-by-step template enabling the researcher to provide the information required for the publication of a [http://www.ands.org.au/guides/defining.a.collection.html Collection description] into the data commons on the RDA website.  Quon software interfaces with the [http://libguides.newcastle.edu.au/content.php?pid=220059&sid=2058245 Mint] enabling the autopopulation of some of the question fields from information stored within the Mint.  Once the required information is entered, Quon interfaces with [http://libguides.newcastle.edu.au/content.php?pid=220059&sid=2058152 ReDBox] to allow the publication of the survey Collection metadata and also related [http://ands.org.au/guides/cpguide/cpgactivity.html Activity] and [http://www.ands.org.au/guides/cpguide/cpgparty.html Party] descriptions if required.  The ReDBox team will curate the information given before publication to RDA. 

===[http://ands.org.au/researchers/manage-data.html Why publish in RDA?]=== 