#summary Step-by-step installation instructions for Quon.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

This page includes step-by-step installation instructions for setting up and running the Quon software.


= Details =

Quon is based on the [http://cakephp.org CakePHP framework], and installation essentially follows the [http://book.cakephp.org/2.0/en/installation.html requirements of CakePHP].
These instructions specify how to set up Quon from a fresh install of [http://www.linuxmint.com/download_lmde.php Linux Mint Debian Edition], so slight changes may be required for other operating systems or distributions.

==Installing Apache and PHP==
  # Install the software: Run `sudo apt-get install apache2 php5 libapache2-mod-php5 php5-curl`
  # Enable mod_rewrite for Apache: Run `sudo a2enmod rewrite`
  # Enable AllowOverride for Apache: Edit `/etc/apache2/sites-available/default` and replace `"AllowOverride None"` with `"AllowOverride All"` for directory `/var/www/`
  # Restart Apache: `sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart`
  # Test PHP: Run `cat "<?php phpInfo(); ?>" > /var/www/test.php`. Then visit [http://localhost/test.php http://localhost/test.php].

==Installing a Database==
  # Install the software: Run `sudo apt-get install mysql-server libapache2-mod-auth-mysql php5-mysql phpmyadmin`
  # Enter in a database password when required, and choose apache2 at the next screen.
  # Enter in the database password entered previously for phpmyadmin, and then choose a password for phpmyadmin.
  # Restart Apache: `sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart`
  # Visit [http://localhost/phpmyadmin http://localhost/phpmyadmin], entering username "root", and the password you entered above.
  # Click on Databases tab and create a new database. For the purposes of this document, it is assumed that the database is named "ands".
  # In the list of databases, find the database created above and choose "Check Privileges".
  # Choose "Add a new User".
  # Enter a user name and password, and grant all privileges on the database. Press "Go" to perform the action.
  # Select the newly-created database from the list of databases on the left of the page.
  # Go to the "Import" tab
  # Click "Browse..." and choose [http://code.google.com/p/quon/source/browse/trunk/sql/schema.sql schema.sql].
  # Press "Go" and exit out of PhpAdmin.

==Installing Quon==
  # Untar quon file to your Web server's directory (/var/www/ in this example)
  # Edit quon/app/Config/core.php and alter Security.salt and Security.cipherSeed to be random values.
  # Edit quon/app/Config/database.php and make configuration match the database settings created above.
  # Visit http://localhost/quon and log in with username `admin` and password `admin`

==Installing Image Manager (optional)==

QuON supports the commercial ImageManager plugin available from [http://www.tinymce.com]. Without this plugin you won't be able to upload images for insertion into the survey pages without having manual file upload access to the server.

  # Purchase and download the ImageManager plugin
  # Expand the download archive into quon/app/webroot/js/tiny_mce/plugins/ (i.e. you will end up with quon/app/webroot/js/tiny_mce/plugins/imagemanager/)
  # Ensure that your quon/app/webroot/files/ folder is writable
  # Login to QuON as an administrator, choose 'System Setup' and set the 'Tiny MCE ImageManager' value to 'true'